"Santiago,"
"I could go with you again. We've made some money."
"No,"
"You're with a lucky boat. Stay with them."
"But remember how you went eighty-seven days without fish and then we caught big ones every day for three weeks."
"I remember,"
"I know you did not leave me because you doubted."
"It was papa made me leave. I am a boy and I must obey him."
"I know,"
"It is quite normal."
"He hasn't much faith."
"No,"
"But we have. Haven't we?"
"Yes,"
"Can I offer you a beer on the Terrace and then we'll take the stuff home."
"Why not?"
"Between fishermen."
"Santiago,"
"Yes,"
"Can I go out to get sardines for you for tomorrow?"
"No. Go and play baseball. I can still row and Rogelio will throw the net."
"I would like to go. If I cannot fish with you, I would like to serve in some way."
"You bought me a beer,"
"You are already a man."
"How old was I when you first took me in a boat?"
"Five and you nearly were killed when I brought the fish in too green and he nearly tore the boat to pieces. Can you remember?"
"I can remember the tail slapping and banging and the thwart breaking and the noise of the clubbing. I can remember you throwing me into the bow where the wet coiled lines were and feeling the whole boat shiver and the noise of you clubbing him like chopping a tree down and the sweet blood smell all over me."
"Can you really remember that or did I just tell it to you?"
"I remember everything from when we first went together."
"If you were my boy I'd take you out and gamble,"
"But you are your father's and your mother's and you are in a lucky boat."
"May I get the sardines? I know where I can get four baits too."
"I have mine left from today. I put them in salt in the box."
"Let me get four fresh ones."
"One,"
"Two,"
"Two,"
"You didn't steal them?"
"I would,"
"But I bought these."
"Thank you,"
"Tomorrow is going to be a good day with this current,"
"Where are you going?"
"Far out to come in when the wind shifts. I want to be out before it is light."
"I'll try to get him to work far out,"
"Then if you hook something truly big we can come to your aid."
"He does not like to work too far out."
"No,"
"But I will see something that he cannot see such as a bird working and get him to come out after dolphin."
"Are his eyes that bad?"
"He is almost blind."
"It is strange,"
"He never went turtle-ing. That is what kills the eyes."
"But you went turtle-ing for years off the Mosquito Coast and your eyes are good."
"I am a strange old man."
"But are you strong enough now for a truly big fish?"
"I think so. And there are many tricks."
"Let us take the stuff home,"
"So I can get the cast net and go after the sardines."
